Manual test scenarios for online shopping app http://advantageonlineshopping.com/#/


#######Login and Registration Scenarios:
1. Click on user profile icon> click on create a new account> user registration page should open.
2. When entering the correct details in registration form, registration shoukd be successful.
3. If username is existing in DB, user should get a message "Account already exists".
4. When entering the correct details on the login page, user should login to the site successfully.is successful. 
5. A logged user clicks on Sign Out – the system logs a user off.
6. A user clicks on Forgot Password – a password change form pops up. A user signs in with a new password entered – the system logs a user in. 
7. A user checks Remember Me in the checkbox – the system keeps them logged in for the next visit. A user can log in by pressing Enter after typing in the credentials. 
8. After entering a username, a person can switch to the password field with Tab. 
9. A user logs in with the same credentials in different browsers – login successful.
10. Registration should fail when user tries to register with invalid credentials(not meeting the criteria).
11. Registration should fail if entered email id is in incorrect format.
12. Login should fail if user is trying to login with either or both incorrect username/password.
13. Login should fail if password/username is empty. 
14. If a user is not logged in, only features and areas for non-logged users should be  available. 
15. Login should fail if user is entering old password after password change. email – can’t log in.  
16. User should remain logged out if  user presses the Back button after logging out.
17. Verify that the required/mandatory fields are marked with * against the field.
18. Verify that clicking submits button after entering all the required fields, submits the data to the server.
19. Verify that not filling the mandatory fields and clicking the submit button will lead to validation error.
20. Verify that not filling the optional fields and clicking the submit button will still send data to the server without any validation error.


#########Search Product Scenarios

21. top level categories of products on home page 
22. Clicking on banner on top left should navigate to the home page.
23. Check the search using a product name, brand name, or category name. Depending on the requirements, only direct matches or related products should be displayed. 
24. . Product image, name, and price should be displayed in the search results.
25.  Results from all categories and subcategories should displayed. 
26. If a user specifies a category for search, only the results from a corresponding category should be displayed. 
27. The most relevant products should appear at the top of the list.
28.  Every page should features different items. The items should repeat.
29. If a user enters an item name with a typo, a system displays a suggestion.
30. Pagination should work fine.
31.  When a user applies a new filter, it should not turn off a previous filter.  
32. When clicking on a particular segment, say Tablet, correct results should be displayed.
33. There should be propert product description 
34. Verify that the correct count of total products is listed on the category pages.
 35. Verify that all the sort options work correctly – correctly sort the products based on the sort option chosen

#######Cart scenarios:

36. Users should be easily add/remove products to/from a shopping cart.
37.  Users can add the same product multiple times and count should reflect in the cart correctly. 
38 It should be possible to add the same products in different variations – color, size, etc. 
39. Items in the cart should be  displayed with correct names, images, and prices. 
40. The items in the cart should be clickable, and the links lead to corresponding product pages.
41.  Total order price should get updated when a user adds/removes a new item to/from the cart.
42. If an item is out of stock, a user should not be able to add it to the cart.
43. When a user removes all items from the cart, nothing should be displayed and the total price should be zero. 
44. When a user closes a tab with a shopping cart, the items should remain in the cart.
45. Verify that the user cannot add more than the available inventory of the product.

#####Checkout scenarios:
46. There should be a prompt to log in or register before completing the purchase.
47.  Customers can check out and pay as guest users without registration.
48.  Returned logged-in users can use pre-saved shipping and billing information.
49. All types of supported payment methods work correctly.
50. An order confirmation page should appear after a successful checkout.
51.  A user receives an order confirmation message via an email or text message.
52.  Order status should be available in the account for registered users.
53.  After completing the payment, a user should be able to continue navigating through the site.

#######General Scenarios:

54. A logged user can access the My Account area and related settings. 
55. A user should be able to update and edit their account information, including contacts, shipping address, password, etc.
56.  A user should be able to view and/or manage order status in the My Orders area.
57.  Users can view and repeat their previous orders.


####Performance Scenarios:
58. Page loading speed is acceptable. 
59. It takes the expected time for a user to log in with the correct credentials.
60. The application should work seamlessly when a user switches between Wi-Fi and mobile data. 
61. A user should be able to log in from different devices simultaneously.
62. The information from different devices should synchronize momentarily.
63. Verify that the session expires as per the session expiration time set.
64. Website should be compatible on all the browsers.
 

#####UI Scenarios:
65.Verify that the company logo is clearly visible.
66. Color coding and fonts of the homepage are standard.   
67. All buttons, textfields, dropdowns, calendars should work as expected. 
68. Localization should be correct as per the languages supported.
69. Elements like button/text fields should not overlap. 


